xxviii C. PLINI EPISTVLAE SELECTAE.

more than a youth, he managed the accounts oi the

third (Gallic) legion in Syria, doubtless marked him
out as especially well fitted to eope with the perplex-
ing problcms that confronted him in Bithynia. He
discharged the dutics ol his office to the great satis
lection oi the emperor, and the large number oi his
letters of information and requests ior instruction,

with answers to the same from Trajan, that are ’

comprised in the tenth and last book oi his eorre-
spondence‚ give us our lullest knowledge in detail oi
the manner ol administrationes an individual Roman
province.

Pliny remained in the province in the neighbour-
hood ol two years, and his service seems to have been
terminated by his death. The letters to and irom
Trajan, which must have been published by some other
person aiter Pliny's death, appear to be arranged in
strictly chronological order. In the last he writes
that he has sent his wife back to Italy on account ol
tlrc death ol her grandfather,l and with Trajan's
sympathetic answer the correspondence suddenly ends.
Nono ol the letters intimate that he himself expected
soon to be rolicvod of his office, and il we may J'udge
irem some parallel instancce, he might have counted
upon nt least arrothcr year ol service in Bithynia, and
lutor upon inrthcr oilicos oi thesemo sort. But tho
inscription croctcd at Comum altor his ‹lcath ‘-' shows
that hc held no iurthcr ollicc. The only fair conclu·
sion seems to hc, thou, that soon after his wiie’s
‹leprrtnrc lor home death suddenly ovorepk him.

¹x. ltltltb'el. leet. ’ ²Seo p. xl.

 

